 BY late accounts from Rotterdam, that city seems to be in a high state of philosophical excitement.
 Indeed, phenomena have there occurred of a nature so completely unexpected—so entirely novel—so
 utterly at variance with preconceived opinions—as to leave no doubt on my mind that long ere this all
 Europe is in an uproar, all physics in a ferment, all reason and astronomy together by the ears.
 It appears that on the—— day of—— (I am not positive about the date), a vast crowd of people,
 for purposes not specifically mentioned, were assembled in the great square of the Exchange in the
 well-conditioned city of Rotterdam. The day was warm—unusually so for the season—there was
 hardly a breath of air stirring; and the multitude were in no bad humor at being now and then
 besprinkled with friendly showers of momentary duration, that fell from large white masses of cloud
 which chequered in a fitful manner the blue vault of the firmament. Nevertheless, about noon, a slight
 but remarkable agitation became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues
 succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were upturned toward the heavens, ten
 thousand pipes descended simultaneously from the corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which
 could be compared to nothing but the roaring of Niagara, resounded long, loudly, and furiously,
 through all the environs of Rotterdam.
 The origin of this hubbub soon became sufficiently evident. From behind the huge bulk of one of
 those sharply-defined masses of cloud already mentioned, was seen slowly to emerge into an open
 area of blue space, a queer, heterogeneous, but apparently solid substance, so oddly shaped, so
 whimsically put together, as not to be in any manner comprehended, and never to be sufficiently
 admired, by the host of sturdy burghers who stood open-mouthed below. What could it be? In the
 name of all the vrows and devils in Rotterdam, what could it possibly portend? No one knew, no one
 could imagine; no one—not even the burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk—had the slightest
 clew by which to unravel the mystery; so, as nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a
 man replaced his pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right eye towards the
 phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted significantly—then waddled back, grunted,
 paused, and finally—puffed again.
 In the meantime, however, lower and still lower toward the goodly city, came the object of so
 much curiosity, and the cause of so much smoke. In a very few minutes it arrived near enough to be
 accurately discerned. It appeared to be—yes! it was undoubtedly a species of balloon; but surely no
 such balloon had ever been seen in Rotterdam before. For who, let me ask, ever heard of a balloon
 manufactured entirely of dirty newspapers? No man in Holland certainly; yet here, under the very
 noses of the people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical thing in question,
 and composed, I have it on the best authority, of the precise material which no one had ever before
 known to be used for a similar purpose. It was an egregious insult to the good sense of the burghers of
 Rotterdam. As to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even still more reprehensible. Being little or
 nothing better than a huge foolscap turned upside down. And this similitude was regarded as by no
 means lessened when, upon nearer inspection, there was perceived a large tassel depending from its
 apex, and, around the upper rim or base of the cone, a circle of little instruments, resembling sheep
bells, which kept up a continual tinkling to the tune of Betty Martin. But still worse. Suspended by
blue ribbons to the end of this fantastic machine, there hung, by way of car, an enormous drab beaver
 hat, with a brim superlatively broad, and a hemispherical crown with a black band and a silver
 buckle. It is, however, somewhat remarkable that many citizens of Rotterdam swore to having seen
 the same hat repeatedly before; and indeed the whole assembly seemed to regard it with eyes of
 familiarity; while the vrow Grettel Pfaall, upon sight of it, uttered an exclamation of joyful surprise,
 and declared it to be the identical hat of her good man himself. Now this was a circumstance the more
 to be observed, as Pfaall, with three companions, had actually disappeared from Rotterdam about
 five years before, in a very sudden and unaccountable manner, and up to the date of this narrative all
 attempts had failed of obtaining any intelligence concerning them whatsoever. To be sure, some bones
 which were thought to be human, mixed up with a quantity of odd-looking rubbish, had been lately
 discovered in a retired situation to the east of Rotterdam, and some people went so far as to imagine
 that in this spot a foul murder had been committed, and that the sufferers were in all probability Hans
 Pfaall and his associates. But to return.
 The balloon (for such no doubt it was) had now descended to within a hundred feet of the earth,
 allowing the crowd below a sufficiently distinct view of the person of its occupant. This was in truth
 a very droll little somebody. He could not have been more than two feet in height; but this altitude,
 little as it was, would have been sufficient to destroy his equilibrium, and tilt him over the edge of his
 tiny car, but for the intervention of a circular rim reaching as high as the breast, and rigged on to the
 cords of the balloon. The body of the little man was more than proportionately broad, giving to his
 entire figure a rotundity highly absurd. His feet, of course, could not be seen at all, although a horny
 substance of suspicious nature was occasionally protruded through a rent in the bottom of the car, or
 to speak more properly, in the top of the hat. His hands were enormously large. His hair was
 extremely gray, and collected in a cue behind. His nose was prodigiously long, crooked, and
 inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant, and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were
 broad, puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a semblance to be
 discovered upon any portion of his head. This odd little gentleman was dressed in a loose surtout of
 sky-blue satin, with tight breeches to match, fastened with silver buckles at the knees. His vest was of
 some bright yellow material; a white taffety cap was set jauntily on one side of his head; and, to
 complete his equipment, a blood-red silk handkerchief enveloped his throat, and fell down, in a
 dainty manner, upon his bosom, in a fantastic bow-knot of super-eminent dimensions.
 Having descended, as I said before, to about one hundred feet from the surface of the earth, the
 little old gentleman was suddenly seized with a fit of trepidation, and appeared disinclined to make
 any nearer approach to terra firma. Throwing out, therefore, a quantity of sand from a canvas bag,
 which, he lifted with great difficulty, he became stationary in an instant. He then proceeded, in a
 hurried and agitated manner, to extract from a side-pocket in his surtout a large morocco pocket-book.
 This he poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with an air of extreme surprise, and was
 evidently astonished at its weight. He at length opened it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed
 with red sealing-wax and tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely at the feet of the
 burgomaster, Superbus Von Underduk. His Excellency stooped to take it up. But the aeronaut, still
 greatly discomposed, and having apparently no farther business to detain him in Rotterdam, began at
 this moment to make busy preparations for departure; and it being necessary to discharge a portion of
 ballast to enable him to reascend, the half dozen bags which he threw out, one after another, without
 taking the trouble to empty their contents, tumbled, every one of them, most unfortunately upon the
 back of the burgomaster, and rolled him over and over no less than one-and-twenty times, in the face
 of every man in Rotterdam. It is not to be supposed, however, that the great Underduk suffered this
impertinence on the part of the little old man to pass off with impunity. It is said, on the contrary, that
 during each and every one of his one-and twenty circumvolutions he emitted no less than one-and
twenty distinct and furious whiffs from his pipe, to which he held fast the whole time with all his
 might, and to which he intends holding fast until the day of his death.
 In the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away above the city, at length
 drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that from which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost
 forever to the wondering eyes of the good citizens of Rotterdam. All attention was now directed to the
 letter, the descent of which, and the consequences attending thereupon, had proved so fatally
 subversive of both person and personal dignity to his Excellency, the illustrious Burgomaster
 Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk. That functionary, however, had not failed, during his
 circumgyratory movements, to bestow a thought upon the important subject of securing the packet in
 question, which was seen, upon inspection, to have fallen into the most proper hands, being actually
 addressed to himself and Professor Rub-a-dub, in their official capacities of President and Vice
President of the Rotterdam College of Astronomy. It was accordingly opened by those dignitaries
 upon the spot, and found to contain the following extraordinary, and indeed very serious,
 communications.
 To their Excellencies Von Underduk and Rub-a-dub, President and Vice-President of the States'
 College of Astronomers, in the city of Rotterdam.
 "Your Excellencies may perhaps be able to remember an humble artizan, by name Hans Pfaall,
 and by occupation a mender of bellows, who, with three others, disappeared from Rotterdam, about
 five years ago, in a manner which must have been considered by all parties at once sudden, and
 extremely unaccountable. If, however, it so please your Excellencies, I, the writer of this
 communication, am the identical Hans Pfaall himself. It is well known to most of my fellow citizens,
 that for the period of forty years I continued to occupy the little square brick building, at the head of
 the alley called Sauerkraut, in which I resided at the time of my disappearance. My ancestors have
 also resided therein time out of mind—they, as well as myself, steadily following the respectable and
 indeed lucrative profession of mending of bellows. For, to speak the truth, until of late years, that the
 heads of all the people have been set agog with politics, no better business than my own could an
 honest citizen of Rotterdam either desire or deserve. Credit was good, employment was never
 wanting, and on all hands there was no lack of either money or good-will. But, as I was saying, we
 soon began to feel the effects of liberty and long speeches, and radicalism, and all that sort of thing.
 People who were formerly, the very best customers in the world, had now not a moment of time to
 think of us at all. They had, so they said, as much as they could do to read about the revolutions, and
 keep up with the march of intellect and the spirit of the age. If a fire wanted fanning, it could readily
 be fanned with a newspaper, and as the government grew weaker, I have no doubt that leather and
 iron acquired durability in proportion, for, in a very short time, there was not a pair of bellows in all
 Rotterdam that ever stood in need of a stitch or required the assistance of a hammer. This was a state
 of things not to be endured. I soon grew as poor as a rat, and, having a wife and children to provide
 for, my burdens at length became intolerable, and I spent hour after hour in reflecting upon the most
 convenient method of putting an end to my life. Duns, in the meantime, left me little leisure for
 contemplation. My house was literally besieged from morning till night, so that I began to rave, and
 foam, and fret like a caged tiger against the bars of his enclosure. There were three fellows in
 particular who worried me beyond endurance, keeping watch continually about my door, and
 threatening me with the law. Upon these three I internally vowed the bitterest revenge, if ever I should
 be so happy as to get them within my clutches; and I believe nothing in the world but the pleasure of
this anticipation prevented me from putting my plan of suicide into immediate execution, by blowing
 my brains out with a blunderbuss. I thought it best, however, to dissemble my wrath, and to treat them
 with promises and fair words, until, by some good turn of fate, an opportunity of vengeance should be
 afforded me.
 "One day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than usually dejected, I continued
 for a long time to wander about the most obscure streets without object whatever, until at length I
 chanced to stumble against the corner of a bookseller's stall. Seeing a chair close at hand, for the use
 of customers, I threw myself doggedly into it, and, hardly knowing why, opened the pages of the first
 volume which came within my reach. It proved to be a small pamphlet treatise on Speculative
 Astronomy, written either by Professor Encke of Berlin or by a Frenchman of somewhat similar name.
 I had some little tincture of information on matters of this nature, and soon became more and more
 absorbed in the contents of the book, reading it actually through twice before I awoke to a
 recollection of what was passing around me. By this time it began to grow dark, and I directed my
 steps toward home. But the treatise had made an indelible impression on my mind, and, as I sauntered
 along the dusky streets, I revolved carefully over in my memory the wild and sometimes unintelligible
 reasonings of the writer. There are some particular passages which affected my imagination in a
 powerful and extraordinary manner. The longer I meditated upon these the more intense grew the
 interest which had been excited within me. The limited nature of my education in general, and more
 especially my ignorance on subjects connected with natural philosophy, so far from rendering me
 diffident of my own ability to comprehend what I had read, or inducing me to mistrust the many vague
 notions which had arisen in consequence, merely served as a farther stimulus to imagination; and I
 was vain enough, or perhaps reasonable enough, to doubt whether those crude ideas which, arising in
 ill-regulated minds, have all the appearance, may not often in effect possess all the force, the reality,
 and other inherent properties, of instinct or intuition; whether, to proceed a step farther, profundity
 itself might not, in matters of a purely speculative nature, be detected as a legitimate source of falsity
 and error. In other words, I believed, and still do believe, that truth, is frequently of its own essence,
 superficial, and that, in many cases, the depth lies more in the abysses where we seek her, than in the
 actual situations wherein she may be found. Nature herself seemed to afford me corroboration of
 these ideas. In the contemplation of the heavenly bodies it struck me forcibly that I could not
 distinguish a star with nearly as much precision, when I gazed on it with earnest, direct and
 undeviating attention, as when I suffered my eye only to glance in its vicinity alone. I was not, of
 course, at that time aware that this apparent paradox was occasioned by the center of the visual area
 being less susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the exterior portions of the retina. This
 knowledge, and some of another kind, came afterwards in the course of an eventful five years, during
 which I have dropped the prejudices of my former humble situation in life, and forgotten the bellows
mender in far different occupations. But at the epoch of which I speak, the analogy which a casual
 observation of a star offered to the conclusions I had already drawn, struck me with the force of
 positive conformation, and I then finally made up my mind to the course which I afterwards pursued.
 "It was late when I reached home, and I went immediately to bed. My mind, however, was too
 much occupied to sleep, and I lay the whole night buried in meditation. Arising early in the morning,
 and contriving again to escape the vigilance of my creditors, I repaired eagerly to the bookseller's
 stall, and laid out what little ready money I possessed, in the purchase of some volumes of Mechanics
 and Practical Astronomy. Having arrived at home safely with these, I devoted every spare moment to
 their perusal, and soon made such proficiency in studies of this nature as I thought sufficient for the
 execution of my plan. In the intervals of this period, I made every endeavor to conciliate the three
creditors who had given me so much annoyance. In this I finally succeeded—partly by selling enough
 of my household furniture to satisfy a moiety of their claim, and partly by a promise of paying the
 balance upon completion of a little project which I told them I had in view, and for assistance in
 which I solicited their services. By these means—for they were ignorant men—I found little difficulty
 in gaining them over to my purpose.